a (recto)
.... we leased (a compound ….) 

(that stands) in its place and is inhabited …. its buildings, trees, and .... 

this (deed) of lease I received …. 

…. the said Solomon b. Ḥalfōn, of blessed memory, by an instrument that is fit to serve (for acquisition) also ….

.... of the month Iyyar of the year 4880 (?), 

to serve as a right and a proof. Sound and valid. "Of his money" and "lodging" ….

Ṣedāqā b. Saadya, may he have a good outcome. Mevōrākh b. Saadya, of blessed memory. 

Aaron b. Joseph, may he have a good outcome. Jacob b. Elazar, of blessed memory.

 


b (verso)
 I:

The honest (elders that take care of the needs) of the heqdēsh (also received) 

 
…. (from Solomon) ha-Zārīz 

Solomon b. Ḥalfon the elder of blessed memory 

(of the rent) owed by him according to the contents 

.... (a quarter of a dinar) that is all (his debt) for the rent 

 
(to the end of the month) Elul of the year 

(4892 of) the creation. This we wrote later 

.... on the .... of the month 

.... of the year 4893 

(of the creation) in the city of Ascalon 

Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevōrākh, of blessed memory. 

(Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā)  the judge, of blessed memory. 

 

II:

The honest elders that take care of the needs (of the community have received) from 

Solomon ha-Zārīz, b. Ḥalfon of blessed memory the rent 

.... that is all he owes 

(for the year 4894 of the creation). This we wrote on Friday 

the 28 of the month Marheshwan of the year 

4895 of the creation, in Ascalon. Sound and valid, Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevōrākh, of blessed memory. 

Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā ha-Meʿullē 

the judge, of blessed memory. 

 

III:

The honest elders that take care of the needs of the heqdēsh 

may our Lord preserve them, also received from Solomon b. Ḥalfōn the elder, of blessed memory, the rent 

owed by him according to the contents of this deed, a quarter of a dinar, that is all he owes 

for the rent to the end of the month Elul of the year [4]895 of the creation. This we wrote 

to the said Solomon b. Ḥalfōn on the 24th of the month of Marheshwan of the year 

[4]896 of the creation in the city of Ascalon. Sound and valid, 

Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevōrākh, of blessed memory.

Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā ha-Meʿullē 

ha-Mēvīn, of blessed memory. 

 

IV:

The honest elders that take care of 

the needs of the community also received from Solomon ha-Zārīz b. 

Ḥalfōn the elder, of blessed memory, of the rent owed by him 

according to the contents of this deed, a quarter of a dinar that is all 

he owes for the rent to the end of the month Elul of the year 

4899 of the creation. This we wrote on the 5th Marheshwan 

of the year 4900 of the creation, in the city of Ascalon. Sound, 

firm, and valid. Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevōrākh, of blessed memory. 

Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā, the judge, of blessed memory. 

 

V:

(1-2) (The honest elders that take care of) the needs of the (of the community also received 

 
(3-5) from Solomon b. Ḥalfōn rent owed by him, etc.) 

 
 
to the end of the month Elul of the year 

4900 of the creation. This we wrote on the 5th 

Marheshwan of the year 4901 of the creation 

in the city of Ascalon. Sound, firm, and 

valid. Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā, the judge, of blessed memory. 

Mevōrākh ha-Kohen b. R. Nathan ha-Kohen ha-Meʿullē in the group of righteousness, 

the honest judge, may he have a good outcome, always. 

 

VI:

The honest elders that take care of the needs of the community and the needs of the heqdēsh, may (Heaven) preserve them, also received 

from Solomon ha-Zārīz, may God preserve him, b. Ḥalfōn the elder, of blessed memory, a quarter of a dinar for the rent owed by him according to the contents of this deed, 

that is all he owes for the rent to the end of the month Elul of the year 4902 of the creation. This we wrote 

on the first of the month.... of the year 4903 of the creation in the city of Ascalon, which is situated on the shore of the Mediterranean. 

Sound and valid, Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevōrākh of blessed memory. Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā ha-Meʿullē, the judge, of blessed memory. 

 

VII:

Solomon ha-Zārīz, b. Ḥalfōn the elder, of blessed memory, presented confirmations signed by the trustees of the heqdēsh 

attesting that they have collected from him his debt for the rent of the compound of the heqdēsh mentioned in 

the text of this deed, being a sum of 8 1⁄2 dirhems of legal tender in waraq, 

whose total is a quarter of a dinar. This is his debt for a whole year 

that is the year 4903 of the creation. This we wrote, Thursday .... 

of the month Elul of the said year, in the city of Ascalon, that is situated (on the shore) of 

the Mediterranean. Sound and valid, Nathan ha-Kohen b. Mevōrākh ha-Kohen, of blessed memory. 

Yefet b. (R. Yeshūʿā) ha-Meʿullē, the judge, of blessed memory. 

 

VIII:

The honest elders that take care of the needs of the heqdēsh and the needs of the community,

(may God preserve them, received) from Solomon ha-Zārīz b. Ḥalfōn the elder, of blessed memory, the rent owed 

by him according to the contents of this deed, a quarter of a dinar weighed and full, that is all he owes 

for the rent to the end of the month Elul of the year 4904 

of the creation. This we wrote and signed, Thursday, the 8th 

of the month Shevat of the year 4905 of the creation, in the city of Ascalon 

which is situated on the shore of the Mediterranean. Sound, firm, valid, and acquired 

.... Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā ha-Meʿullē, the judge, of blessed memory. Mevōrākh ha-Kohen b. R. Nathan ha-Kohen ha-Meʿullē ha-Dayyān ha-Muflā, of blessed memory.

 

IX:

The honest elders that take care of the needs of the public and the needs of the heqdēsh 

may God preserve them, received from Solomon ha-Zārīz b. Ḥalfōn, of blessed memory, 

(3-4) a quarter of a dinar, weighed and full, of the rent owed by him according to the contents of this deed, that is all he owes for the rent (to the end of the month) 

 
Elul of the year 4905 of the creation. This we wrote and signed, 

on the month of Tishri the 19th .... (the year 4906 of the creation) 

in the city of Ascalon which (is situated) on the shore (of the Mediterranean). 

Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā ha-Meʿullē (the judge, of blessed memory). 

Mevōrākh ha-Kohen b. R. Nathan (ha-Kohen ha-Meʿullē the distinguished judge, of blessed memory). 

 

X:

The honest elders that take care of.... may God preserve them (received) also .... 

from Solomon ha-Zārīz, may God preserve him, 

of the rent owed by him according to the contents of this deed.... (a quarter of a dinar) .... 

that is all he owes for the rent (to the end of the month) 

Elul of the year 4906 of the creation. This we wrote 

Marheshwan of the year [4]907in the city (of Ascalon which is situated on the shore) 

of the Mediterranean. Sound, firm, and valid. 

Yefet b. R. Yeshūʿā, the judge, of blessed memory. Mevōrākh (ha-Kohen b. R. Nathan) ….

 