"[Say] as follows: '[To life!] Greetings to [you],'" etc. (1 Samuel 25:6).

"Those who love Your teaching enjoy well-being" (Psalm 119:165). 

"Peace (well-being), peace to the far and the near" (Isaiah 57:19). 

The reason for this petition to his honor (our) m(aster) and t(eacher) the elder Abū Sahl the ḥaver, the great Dignitary, the wise and discerning one, who excels in everything, may his Rock protect him and grant long life to his three sons, the great Dignitaries, and the venerable holy men, first and foremost Yefet the scholar, may the Lord grant him favor and mercy and health from heaven, as well as to all his wise and discerning sons, may He protect them and help them, amen sela. O my master the ḥaver the elder Abū Sahl, God in heaven knows the charity you have done for me. You have saturated me with God's favor and your own. I rely on the highborn status50 and generosity. By the grave of your father "the Ahuv" (beloved, i.e., of the yeshiva) Moses (may) the m(emory of) the r(ighteous be) b(lessed), do not fail to provide me with an evening meal, may it come from God and from you. I have not had anything to dine on except for half a loaf at night and a half loaf in the day. For whatever I have eaten and invoked a blessing I have offered prayers for you, may God never cut you off (from nourishment). And peace. Do not abandon

 

Do not abandon me. I rely on your patronage, may God not abandon you.

By the religion of the Jews, on account of great hunger and fasting a veil has come across my eyes and a blot over my heart such that I do not know what I am writing. Forgive me and do not [...] me that I cut short your honorific titles, for you are abo[v]e all need for such description. May God not cut you off (from support). I trust in God and in you to give me sustenance and to act kindly and with charity. And peace. By the religion of God's unity, I have benefited only from a nightly loaf, half of which I eat at night [an]d half for lunch. May God never lead you to bad times, amen sela. 

 

If you have a Jewish celebration including ritual slaughter for distribution do not forget a piece of meat or something else as charity for me, because I am a foreigner and know nobody. Whatever you do for me, God will produce for you in return. 