IN (YOUR) NAME, O MERCI(FUL)!
"Your hand shall be lifted upon your adversaries, and all your enemies shall be cut off."
I am writing to you, my lord and master, my chief, the illustrious
elder—may God prolong your life and make permanent your prominent position,
may he be for you and with you and guard you in all your affairs.
I am writing to you out of a strong longing; may God make us meet
together presently in the best circumstances in his favor and bounty,
if God wills, for it is up to him and it is in his power alone.
I wish to inform you, my lord, that I had previously written to you
at Tānā. Meanwhile the accompanying boat of the ship arrived,
and its soldiers told us that the ship
in which your excellency my lord traveled was taken by pirates,
and I was very sad about this. But afterwards I praised God
and thanked him, when I heard that your life was saved. "O that men
 would praise the Lord for his goodness." Everything can be replaced except life; I would indeed like to mention to you,
my lord, that your servant had a large shipment in the boat
of Fofali ("Betel-nut merchant"), then God ordained what happened (i.e., everything was lost); in the end,
however, God compensated me—praise and thanks to him. Likewise, my lord,
do not be sad. God will replace your loss to you soon;  you will live, if God wills
and God will compensate you many times. Your servant thought
that your honor my lord was in Tānā, and I had previously sent
letters to the nakhoda Tīnbū, advising him to pay to my lord
21 mithqals (Egyptian dinars) or more. Afterwards, however,
my lord the Sheikh Abu Ί-Qasim Ibn Qattan ("Dealer in cotton") came to Mangalore.
I inquired about you
and he told me that your excellency was in Broach.
In all circumstances please come quickly to Mangalore and
do not tarry, for I am waiting here in Mangalore
and—if God wills—we shall embark on our way home as soon as possible. It is better for you
to travel from Mangalore with me
than to travel in the ships of foreign people. Please remember
that there is no difference between us, my money is yours,
it is just the same. The boats start presently from your place,
from Kanbayat, and from Tana; please set out immediately so that you reach
Mangalore with the vessels which,
God willing, will soon be arriving in Malibarat, Kayakannur,
and Mangalore. If, my lord, you need
any gold, please take it on my account from the nakhoda Tinbu,
for he is staying in Tana, and between him and me there are
bonds of inseparable friendship and brotherhood. You would certainly like to know, my lord,
that a sum in favor of your excellency remained
with me on account of the silk.
With it I bought twelve and a half large [bahars] of pepper for  you,
and I dispatch this for you under God's protection from Mangalore
with the "Blessed" ship—may God ordain her safety.
Verso
Attached to this letter
is another one in Arabic characters of the same content as this
letter; please notice this. And again, my lord, do not take to
heart what you have lost; you have, my lord,
praise be to God, plenty to have recourse to and to be compensated with.
When life is saved, nothing else matters.
Nor do I need to urge you again to come to
Mangalore. Accept, my lord, copious regards for your noble self
and convey copious regards to the elder Abu Sa'd.
The writer of these lines, Abraham b. Yiju, conveys to your excellency
copious regards, and those who attend the writing of this letter do the same.
May the well-being of my lord grow indefinitely and never become reduced.
Verso, address
To be delivered to my noble lord, the light of my eyes, his honor, (our) M(aster) and T(eacher) Judah ha-Kohen, the wise and understanding, the son of his honor, greatness, and hol(iness), (our) M(aster) and T(eacher) Joseph ha-Kohen, may his soul be satiated with pleasures in the Gardens of Eden until he will be quickened at the end of the days. From his servant Mahruz, the son of Jacob, (may he) r(est in) E(den). Given in trust (i.e., no fees for delivery).